<h1 class="minutehead">Minutes of a meeting of the above Council held on Monday 26th November 2018 at 7.00pm in Tintern Village Hall.</h1>
Present: Chairman Cllr Mrs Shewell, Cllrs Hayward, Hoskins, Richards, Cobb & Evans & the Clerk.
2599. Police Report: Attached. No Police presence. A further report was received of a white van broken into along the main road in the village. Residents should be aware of these problems and be vigilant. Cllr Richards asked whether the reports are published for residents and was informed they are on the Neighbourhood Watch Site.
2600. Public Forum: No one present.
2601. Apologies for absence: Cllr Hillard & County Cllr Webb.
2602. Declarations of interest: Cllr Hayward re No 2608. Cllrs Hoskins, Cobb & Shewell re No 2610.
2603. Approval of minutes of previous meeting: Approved & signed as correct.
2604. Financial Report: Community A/C £1,580.26, BMM A/C £7,117.48. Spent to date on revenue £5,957, capital £6,436 making a total of £12,393.
2605. Accounts for payment:-
Merlin Waste - £30 (Ch. No 101140).
Tintern Church Sung Vespers - £100 (Ch. No.101141).
Clerk’s Salary & Expenses - £312.85 (Ch. No. 101142) – all approved for payment. Refund of £575 received from Crown Estates for JKW removal.
2606. Planning Permissions: DM/2018/01824 – Sunnydene, Botany Bay – Single storey front extension and renovation of old pigsty for use as a workshop. Requested the restricted byway across the entrance to the property be kept clear at all times. Approval recommended. Planning Appeal Ravensnest Fishery – alleged unauthorised timber framed building. MCC issued Enforcement Notice on 24th August which the owner appealed against it. Clerk reply saying TCC do not support the appeal as they are concerned this is a ploy to circumvent the planning permission and achieve the development of a residential dwelling contrary to Policy DS1 in the Wye Valley AONB. Further concerned about additional work that appears to have been undertaken, including a new sign for which it does not appear planning permission has been obtained and construction of a new access. Whilst this is not directly related to the appeal it should be viewed in that context.
2607. Updates:-
Proposed Tintern Sports Club Pavilion – The Sports Club are seeking three quotations for the
proposed lean-to pavilion and will be meeting on the 10th December to discuss these. They will then report back to TCC in time for discussion at the January meeting.
Illegal A-Boards on A466 at Chepstow – These have now been removed.
Welsh Water sewerage problem – Final update received. Having lined and repaired various sections of their sewer network they are confident that the works to remove surface and ground water infiltration have been successful. Clerk ask them to notify TCC of the results of future annual tests.
A466 Future Closures – MCC still hoping to start with Site 2 (Livox) in March 2019 followed by Site 1 (Wyndcliffe). Clerk to ask them to provide TCC with a response to the reassurances they requested following the meeting held in September.
Possible Rates Relief for Tintern Businesses – Cllr Richards spoke to County Cllr Webb after receiving the email from Ruth Donovan, MCC and asked if Hardship Relief would apply. Clerk to email asking if she could supply TCC with information about applying for hardship relief if businesses are not eligible for business rates temporary reduction. TCC understand there is also a procedure for applying for hardship relief if a business is not eligible for business rates temporary reduction. Cllr Shewell suggested that the initial advice received from MCC should be circulated immediately to the businesses whilst further enquiries are made about hardship allowances. All councillors agreed.
Angiddy Trail Leaflet – Update received from AONB. They are making progress and hope to have a proof within the next few weeks and complete in the current financial year.
2608. Reports from outside bodies:-
Lower Wye Valley Building Preservation Trust – Possible sale of Slipway to the Trust. Cllr Shewell explained that following the October council meeting a meeting was held with the Trust and they have asked for TCC’s approval for a sale to take place. Clerk to reply saying in principal TCC are happy to sell, subject to the Trust confirming the exact area of land they require. TCC would also require reassurance that no parking spaces will be lost and the provision of details with any restrictions that should attach. Any sale will be subject to TCC having the option to re-purchase at any time in the future.
Village Hall – Maintenance Day has taken place and the two new benches installed. Xmas Bingo and Craft Fayre in December. They are having a few problems with the heating. Quotations received from VHC for proposed refurbishment to the playground equipment. Request made to TCC for some financial support towards this (Agenda No 2610). This will be discussed at the Finance Committee meeting.
Llandogo School – Cllr Evans reported that the School now has two new governors, one teacher governor and one parent governor. They are also looking for assistance with funding for general maintenance and have asked if TCC would consider a donation in next year’s precept. They have also asked TUCC for match-funding.
St Michael’s Church – Remembrance Day Service well attended and the Church Lads Brigade also had a good turnout at the service.
2609. Reports from Sub-Committees:- Finance – Finance Committee due to meet on the 28th November to discuss the 2019/20 Budget. Ideas for projects were asked for:-
Cllr Richards reported that the Fete Committee have started fund raising for next year but would look to TCC for a donation.
Information Board for businesses – Cllr Richards has spoken to AONB about this and they have wanted to engage with the businesses in Tintern but been unable to do so. She was told there is grant funding available which would need match-funding and suggested TCC put in a figure of £500 for this year and £500 the following year.
She also raised the issue of the steps leading up to The Pound which need clearing. The pathway is also overgrown with grass.
Cllr Evans re speed monitoring system. He does not have costs yet but probably thousands. 
War Memorial – Cllr Hillard had earlier reported that hopefully the only cost would be the brass plaque. He has not provided a price for this yet.
2610. Village Hall Playground Equipment: Following the ROSPA Annual Playground Report the VHC were discussing recommendations before reporting back to TCC. Cllr Cobb circulated preliminary proposals for repair and replacement of current equipment. Key issues that they wish to address as soon as possible are repairing the fencing (estimated cost £1,836), replacement of the wooden climbing frame (estimated cost £2,500-3,000) and replacement of the matting beneath the swings (awaiting estimate). This will be considered at the Finance Meeting.
2611. Correspondence: MCC – notification of temporary road closures at Ravensnest Wood Road and Greenwood Road.
AONB – Lower Wye Catchments Natural Flood Management & Green Infrastructure Project. They are asking for suggestions of any areas of concern in the tributaries of the River Wye. AONB – Information on a new project in conjunction with Tintern Abbey.
Application has been received for the councillor vacancy. No decision can be made yet as the time for calling an election had only just expired. Notice to be placed inviting applications for co-option. This will then be discussed at the January 7th meeting.
2612. Any Other Business: Cllr Shewell asked when Cllrs Hayward & Hoskins are getting the Xmas tree. They are speaking to the supplier and hope to get it soon.
Cllr Evans raised an explanation from the owner of the land opposite Parva Springs regarding the recent work carried out on the land and his intentions. There was a concern regarding the pollarding of the oak tree on the land and the owner has advised that he consulted the Tree Officer and experts prior to carrying out the work and was advised that the tree posed a danger if left as it was. He stated that it is his intention to manage the land as an active woodland, which will require coppicing and thinning of existing, coppiced trees to encourage new growth of these and other species.
A former resident of Tintern rang the Clerk regarding the Linen Well. When he lived in the village a work party used to clear the well and he has noted it is very overgrown. Cllr Hayward agreed to inspect the well and report back.
Cllr Evans asked if he could have TCC’s permission to talk with Safe Speed about the cost of their speed control system. This Councillors were happy to give.
Cllr Hoskins raised the fact there is a blocked culvert outside Riverside. Clerk report this to MCC Highways.
Cllr Hoskins – In the woodland opposite the Lower Wireworks Car Park entrance there are two overhanging trees which could fall on cars. Clerk report this to NRW.
Cllr Richards reported that the Fete Committee have commenced fund raising for next year’s Fete and there will be a quiz on the 26th January at The Royal George.
2613. Date of next meeting: 7th January 2019.
There being no further business the meeting closed at 20.36.
