EXTRACT OF MINUTES OF EXTRAORDINARY MEETING HELD ON MONDAY 4TH SEPTEMBER 2018
PRESENT: Chair Cllr Stephenie Shewell, Cllrs Steve Evans, Tony Hayward, John Hoskins, Vivien Richards County Councillor Ann Webb
12 members of the public and business community
APOLOGIES: Cllrs Lindsay Cobb and Alan Hillard
Discussion
Cllr Shewell asked for Councillors to introduce themselves and outlined the reason for the meeting which was called in response to correspondence from Monmouthshire Highways. MCC Highways has outlined four methods of handling the road closure required for the safe correction of loose rock adjoining the A466. (Attached as appendix to these minutes). She clarified the options for the work time table and asked members of the community their input as being representative of business and private villagers.
Comments
The shortest closure possible is best but as a final solution
The most important concern was the management of the whole operation
Through traffic should be separated from community traffic by encouraging routes away from the Wye Valley including the Prince of Wales Bridge and the A4293
The signs used during previous closures were hard to read and were, in any case, ignored by sat-nav
users
Issue of possible problems if concurrent works fail to finish on schedule and the problems of travel
during the Winter
Option 1 would be preferred to get the work over with
The works could adversely affect the Fete
The lanes on the alternative routes must be road worthy and potholes must be filled
Why can't option 2 start in March to reduce the effect on business
Signage should start further along the valley in both directions and state clearly that Tintern is still open for business
CADW does not publicise the Abbey enough and could install signs from the Severn Crossing to Monmouth so as not to deter visitors
MCC should liaise with Gloucestershire CC to avoid repetition of multiple closures
Business is needed during the summer months in order to survive the leaner winter months
A winter closure would be preferred
We don't understand why bats are more important than humans
Alternative route is unsuitable during winter months
Safety concerns with commuters travelling in the dark winter months
A one way system could be implemented to reduce frustration
Danger inherent in many more vehicles using the narrow routes
Permanent traffic lights
Coordination of closures
September to November would be the best time
In the past the progress of the work was not communicated and this must be corrected
Can the works could be carried out without a closure
The whole issue is outrageous after the third year of closures with traffic lights in place for 2 1/2 years
Too long a period for surveys, etc
The two mile blockage would result in a 35 minute detour
There should be compensation for businesses
Will the works would be carried out 7 days a week or not
During the snow fall during the last closure the alternative route was difficult even in a 4x4 vehicle
The route must be made safe with correction of the bad surface, edge erosion and clearing of overhanging trees as a priority
Query why climbers were allowed to park where we are not allowed to drive
Can a way could be found for access to the cottages
Why can't a new road be created
At this juncture, after some reiteration of points already made, Cllr Shewell asked for a show of hands for each of the options available. Option 1 was unanimously chosen.
The members of the community left the meeting and discussion followed among the councillors present as to their preferred option. After consideration of the comments from the community the councillors agreed that option 1 would be the best way forward, especially for the businesses in the village.
Following this decision it was decided that we would communicate this choice to MCC Highways with the following conditions taken into consideration:
Maximum number of days work each week (prefer 7 days)
Longer working days
Easter opening if possible
Proper signage and advance planning
Alternative routes
Separate language signs well in advance of the closure before drivers are committed
Signage to include businesses open and access to the Abbey
Maintenance of roads before and after the closure
One way on alternative route if possible
Change of speed limit during the closure
Address issues arising from sat-nav routing vehicles incorrectly
Liaise with others such as utility companies, Gloucestershire CC, etc.
Give notice 28 days in advance
Public statement by public meeting and presentation
Weekly updates to TCC for publication
Businesses compensated by at least a rates holiday
Actions 
County Cllr Webb was asked to request that Steve Baldwin and Roger Hoggins attend the next meeting of TCC to explain which option they are going to follow, the criteria used for the decision and to respond to our conditions. Cllr Shewell to convey the above conditions to MCC Highways.
There being no further business the meeting was closed at 8:40pm
APPENDIX
Ecology work
The ecology work for Site 1 is just being wrapped up and there is a bat emergence survey to be undertaken on Site 2 over the next couple of weeks.
Site 1
this will enable the Habitat Regulations Assessment to be undertaken and submitted to Welsh Government for determination. This will cover the proposal for removing the remaining unstable rock face and forming a 1 in 1 batter back from the road. As well as dealing with SSSI/SAC and Annex 1 habitat of the woodland area there is the presence of bats within the cliff face and surrounding area. Because of this any works can only take place outside of hibernation periods in the active season which is typically April onwards until September. Works are expected to take about 6 weeks and due to the nature of what needs to be undertaken will require a full road closure.
Site 2
works are likely to take the form of a netting and anchor solution. The design is currently being looked into in more detail but it is envisaged the top half of the slope, which is well fractured and loose, will be netted. The bottom half which is made up of more competent material will be stabilised with anchors. Because space is limited and the rock face adjoins the road directly any anchor or bolt head will have to be recessed into the rock face to minimise dangerous protrusions into the road space. These works are expected to take about 4 weeks and again because of the type of work and the size of plant required to form the anchor recess points the road will have to be closed while this is being undertaken.
The work
Both sites on same contract
Assuming that both sites are undertaken under the same contract, as the Livox Cottage properties are located between the two sites it will not be possible to run these sites concurrently without removing all access. Running the sites consecutively and allowing for contingencies this would require the A466 to be closed for a period of around 12 weeks.
Options
We do have a number of options and these are listed below the timings of which will be dependent on having the Habitat Regulation Assessment/Licences in place for Site 1 and the results of Bat Surveys for Site 2
1 Commence Site 2 in March 19 followed by Site 1 in April (Closure period March/April/May)
2 Commence Site 2 in April 19 followed by Site 1 (Closure period April/May/June)
3 Delay Site 1 works until September 19 and follow on with Site 2. The works must be complete by Nov 19 and the bat hibernation season. (Closure period Sept/Oct/Nov)
4 Commence Site 2 in March (April dependant on bat surveys) and Site 1 in September (Closure period March (or April) then Sept/Oct)
Considerations
The following considerations apply:
For Option 1 apart from the lengthy closure it is unlikely due to the bulk excavation works required at Site 1 that the road could be reopened at Easter
Under Option 2, although a delayed start would push the works into June, by commencing Site 2 first it may be possible, due to the type of work, to reopen the road for Easter but this will have to be confirmed
Option 3 works are likely to run into November and bat hibernation and the implications of this will have to be investigated
Option 4 splits the work and would lessen the overall impact on the spring/summer months especially if Site 2 can be commenced in March. Even if Site 2 is delayed until April it still may be possible to reopen the road over the Easter period. Option 4 however will require the lights at Site 1 to be in place for another year.
