<h1 class="minutehead">Minutes of a meeting of the above council held on Monday 25th March 2019 at 7.00pm in Tintern Village Hall.</h1>
Present: Cllrs Hayward, Hoskins, Hillard, Evans, Richards, Ashman, County Cllr Webb and the Clerk. Members of the public – CSO Jones & Beth Winstone.
2659. Police Report: Attached. CSO Andrew Jones in attendance. Several farm outbuildings/sheds have been broken into recently and garden equipment, quad bikes, etc stolen. Can residents please be vigilant and report any suspicious activity to the Police.
2660. Public Forum: No one present.
2661. Apologies for absence: Cllrs Shewell & Cobb.
2662. Declarations of interest: None.
2663. Approval of minutes of previous meeting: Approved & signed as correct.
2664. Financial Report: BMM A/C £7,124.25, Community A/C £3,793.58. Amount spent to date on revenue £8,617, Capital £7,019 making a total of £15,636.
2665. Accounts for payment:-
Merlin Waste - £30 (Ch. No. 300101),
Clerk’s Salary & Expenses - £338.67 (Ch. No. 300102),
Village Hall Room Hire - £30 (Ch. No. 300103) – all approved.
AONB – Angiddy Trail Leaflet - £1,000 (Ch. 101155) – This has now been completed, invoice received and paid.
2666. Planning Permissions:-
DM/2019/00268 – Agricultural Notification only – New building for storage and
a log cabin on Land at Tintern Cross, Pontysaeson. Was refused by MCC on 19/3/2019. DM/2019/00184 – Log Pod, Land opposite Old Park Cottage, Parkhouse. Clerk comment that there are no planning notices on this site. TCC do not feel it is contrary to planning policies so have no objections.
2667. Updates:- A466 Future Road Closure – The first closure date of Site 2 Livox has been delayed until the 7th May. MCC are still looking into whether it will be feasible to delay the works on Site 1 Wyndcliffe until next year.
Report back from Business Forum Meeting re support for business development & future presentation by AONB – Meeting held 19th March attended by two members of AONB, 3 Councillors and representatives of Tintern Businesses. Discussed the aims for promoting the businesses and the proposed app. AONB not sure what the take-up of the app would be and are hoping to produce an electronic and paper map. They were given a copy of the current Business Map. They also discussed a potential grant which they would wish TCC to apply for with their support, but would like the businesses to take the lead in future. Several suggestions for improvements in the village were suggested. It was felt that a signage study could be carried out to develop and implement a cohesive signage strategy. Cllr Hayward explained that a meeting was held a few years ago regarding this. Also the possibility of a water fountain for visitors. County Cllr Webb offered to get information on this. At a previous meeting with Roger Hoggins he had promised to look at obtaining funding for a concept plan for improved pedestrian access throughout the village. Clerk to chase him. Also tidying up the village in advance of events. Cllr Ashman explained there are several areas of the riverbank which do not seem to be kept tidy. Cllr Richards will now organise a full meeting of the Business Forum which AONB will hopefully attend to galvanise support and refine ideas. Also agreed she could possibly talk to Ian Saunders and Nicola Edwards of MCC Tourism.
2668. Reports from outside bodies:-
Lower Wye Valley Building Preservation Trust – Presentation by Mrs Wood & Mr Hewitt has been delayed until the April meeting.
Village Hall - no report.
Llandogo School – no report.
St Michael’s Church – Brigade service on Mothering Sunday. Few final question relating to the faculty being dealt with.
2669. Reports from Sub-Committees:- Finance – Letter received from HSBC asking for confirmation of up to date account information. Clerk & Cllr Evans are in the process of trying to complete this.
2670. Affordable Housing Site in Tintern: Handover of the properties is due the 1st April but tenants will be signed up on the 3rd April. All three properties have been let to applicants meeting the rural allocations criteria.
2671. Correspondence: Wales Air Ambulance – letter of thanks for donation. Mr R. Campbell – complaint re unauthorised development at Fairoak Nursery Farm. A large agricultural building has been erected and a caravan placed on site which appears to be occupied. Clerk to ask Guy Delamere, MCC to look into the matter as complaints have been received from residents.
2672. Any Other Business: Cllr Evans re safe speed. This has temporarily stalled as they want more information about funding even though MCC & Gwent Police have approved it. A lady called Kath wants to erect a bench overlooking the playing fields next to one erected for her grandfather. She asked Cllr Evans whose permission she needs. He was advised to inform the VHC as TCC do not have any objections.
Cllr Ashman re blocked road drains and gulleys. He has reported these to MCC Highways. They have cleared some but others need doing. The road also need sweeping. He also went on a Rights of Way Training Course on the 25th March. The community map TCC hold is out of date so the Clerk was advised to request another one from MCC. He was informed at the meeting that in 7 years time any rights of way not registered correctly will be lost so felt it was important these were updated.
Cllr Hoskins stated that the new recycling service is having some teething problems. County Cllr Webb will make enquiries.
Cllr Richards stated that MCC had filled in some potholes in Chapel Hill Road, but have not done a good job as they have put mounds of not properly formed tarmac in the potholes.
2673. Date of next meeting: April 29th.
There being no further business the meeting closed at 8.02.
