Minutes of a meeting of the above Council held by telephone conferencing on Monday 18th May 2020 at 7.00pm.

INCLUDES THE <b>DRAFT</b> MINUTES OF THE AGM HELD ON THE SAME DATE

Present:  Chairman Cllr Mrs Shewell, Cllrs Hayward, Richards, Evans, Cobb, Hillard, Ashman, County Cllr Webb and the Clerk.

2876.	Police Report: Attached and circulated via email.  Cllr Richards proposed a letter of thanks be sent to them for the successful operation conducted recently targeting offenders involved in recent theft/burglary incidents.  30 stop searches were carried out.  Clerk to do this.   
2877.	Public Forum: None.

2878.	Apologies for absence:  Cllr Hoskins.

2879.	Declarations of interest:  None.

2880.	Approval of minutes of previous meeting:  Approved & signed as correct.  

2881.	Financial Report:  BMM A/C £7,138.75, Community A/C £12,963.46.  Precept paid in £6,214 on 30th April 2020.  Amount spent to date on revenue £874.35.

2882.	Accounts for payment:-
Came & Co – Parish Council Insurance - £371.65 (Ch. No. 300175)
Internal Auditor’s Report - £100 (Ch. No. 300176)
Clerk’s Salary & Expenses - £290.90 (Ch. No. 300177)
Merlin Waste – Invoice for May not yet received but payment approved if so.
All approved for payment. Proposed by Cllr Shewell, seconded by Cllr Hayward.

2883.   Planning Permissions: None.  Notification received from MCC that they will shortly be recommencing site visits where safe.  Straightforward planning applications will also be considered.

2884.   Updates:-   
A466 Future Closure – Notification received from MCC on 29th April that works originally planned for Summer 2020 will definitely not take place until the 2021/22 financial year. Choosing and agreeing the approvals and consents with NRW has taken longer than anticipated.  MCC do now have approval in principal that the site is suitable but final approval will not be gained in time to commence works this year.  County Cllr Webb reported she has now received a fresh update from the Cabinet Member regarding the future closure.  Ideally they would like to proceed this year, but NRW issues need to be resolved regarding compensatory habitat, ecology mitigation ad habitat regulations assessment formal sign-off by the Welsh Government before works could proceed.  Mark Hand from MCC is awaiting a full reply from NRW, but initial response indicated a July 2020 deadline may be achievable.  After discussion by Councillors it was felt it would only be acceptable to both TCC and the Businesses to now do the work this year if they can give assurances that work would be completed by the beginning of August 2020.  If no assurances could be given TCC would prefer work to be done in early 2021 providing it could be completed by the Easter Bank Holiday weekend as they fear businesses will not survive another major set-back.  Clerk asked to write to MCC with this request.
Tintern Business Forum – Discuss Councillors comments on Businesses Feedback Report.  Cllr Richards gave a verbal precis on items in the report and asked for TCC’s support to action items where applicable.  She explained that there were actions that could be done now, actions when lockdown ends and actions long-term, ie lobbying MP/AM to ask Government to extend Development Bank of Wales Loans Scheme, TCC write to MCC, MP & AM asking them to request that telecom providers consider not charging for properties closed during the pandemic and consider contributing to Visit Tintern Marketing Fund when setting the next budget.  Clerk to draw up a document on actions that can be circulated to Forum members.

2885.	Reports from outside bodies:-	
Lower Wye Valley Building Preservation Trust – Discuss quotations for stream embankment repairs.  Two contractors have inspected the site and provided quotations of £13,010 + VAT and £9,500 + VAT.  Both quotes propose doing the work with rock armour of large blocks of limestone laid dry and interlocking to make a large dry stone wall. Cllrs Hayward & Ashman were asked to check through the quotes and if necessary get John Topp’s advice before coming back to TCC with a recommendation as to which quote to accept. 
Village Hall – No report as Hall still closed.  Playground Inspection booked for June.  The VHC would like to extend their thanks to the Sports Club for mowing the grass in the playground. The remainder has been mowed by Jane McCorquodale & Dave Tuffery.  Any offers of plants for the front garden area would be appreciated.  County Cllr Webb asked if the VHC had applied for any Support for Businesses Grants as there is a scheme available offering financial support to village halls. Cllr Cobb replied they had not done so yet. County Cllr Webb will furnish her with details.
Llandogo School – Despite numerous attempts on the part of the Chair of Governors and Outgoing Head, there has been no response from the LEA
St Michael’s Church – Services being held through Zoom. Anyone interested in joining please contact Cllr Alan Hillard.  A tentative date has been given for the start of the restoration work but awaiting confirmation from the Church as to whether they can go ahead.  Also awaiting confirmation from the Bishop as to when the Church can re-open.  The Church is however open for funerals.

2886.	Reports from Sub-Committees:-  Finance.   Annual Return and Statement of Accounts completed and approved – please see AGM 18th May 2020 (Agenda Nos. 810       & 811). 
Came & Co Council Insurance renewal reminder received.  Cllr Hillard has inspected the policy to consider its adequacy and has confirmed that in his opinion it is.  Due to the current pandemic several events that TCC had budgeted for in the 2020/21 Precept will not now take place.  It was agreed that when the Finance Committee next meet to discuss the Internal Auditor’s report they will also discuss this matter.  

2887.   Correspondence:   MCC Planning Dept Continuation of Planning Service during the pandemic.
Joshua Lovell, MCC Boundaries Wales – Local Democracy & Boundary Commission revised review date of 3 week consultation commencing 1st June 2020 for electoral arrangements.   Councils have replied saying due to the pandemic they think this unreasonable.
Keep Wales Tidy – notification of launch of Local Places of Nature Scheme.  Interested applications to be submitted by 26th May.  Clerk forwarded a copy to the Village Hall and Church Lads Brigade.
Two Charities request letters (Tenovus Cancer Care & Gwent YFC.  Re-agenda for discussion in June.

2888.	Any Other Business:  County Cllr Webb reported collection of green waste is starting again this week.  The council tips at Llanfoist and Five Lanes are re-opening on the 26th May but by booking online only.  Schools are unlikely to re-open in the near future. Guidance is awaited from the Welsh Government as to when The Hub will recommence.  MCC are repairing potholes quickly at the moment so please report problems to them.
Cllr Hayward had expressed his concern over the continuing amount of dog waste deposited on The Village Green. This is making mowing the grass very unpleasant.  Suggestions were a home-made sign, CCTV camera, small fence and notice on the website.  County Cllr Webb will make enquiries who is the MCC Dog Fouling Officer and ask them to look into the matter.  Cllr Richards agreed to put a dog sticker on the general waste bin behind The Green giving permission to dispose of dog waste here.  She will also, when lockdown permits, put stickers on the remaining litter bins and arrange for the remaining bins to be relocated.  Cllr Evans agreed to put a notice on the website.  Clerk to investigate the possibility of a chain around The Green.
Cllr Cobb raised concerns by residents about the recent incidents of anti-social and abusive verbal behaviour by several motorists in the Lower Wireworks Car Park.  Clerk asked to request that Police patrol vehicles continue to carry out checks in this area. 
She also reported that there appears to be a problem in the Quayside area with some properties putting waste bags out for collection on the wrong day.  Recyclable bags are also being left behind because some items in them are un-recyclable.  County Cllr Webb agreed to ask MCC to do a leaflet drop in this area to remind residents of the correct collection days.
She then reported that the VHC are organising two small competitions to promote lockdown entertainment.  One is a Sunflower Growing competition and the other a Fairy Door Painting competition aimed at the children.  David Hurn has agreed to take photographs of these for the village portfolio.
Cllr Shewell reported that there appears to be substantial land clearance work in progress on land at the rear of The Rock.   Councillors felt that MCC Enforcements should be notified and asked to carry out investigations as to whether this is allowed and also to request that work is halted while doing so.  Clerk to contact them. 
Cllr Ashman asked if any update had been received regarding the damaged footpath 381/49/1 at the rear of his and Mr Carter’s property.  County Cllr Webb had received an update and will forward a copy to him.  Post Meeting Note:  MCC informed her that initial works did not go ahead as the Field Officer who was managing the issue has only just returned to work.  It will be looked at after this week.
Cllr Evans asked if TCC would be prepared to send a letter to the White Monk Café thanking them on behalf of TCC and the community for the wonderful service and support they have provided during these difficult times.  Clerk to do this.

2889.	Date of next meeting:  Monday 29th June.
There being no further business the meeting closed at 20.16.

ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING

<b>DRAFT</b> Minutes of the AGM of the above Council held on Monday 18th May 2020 at 6.30pm via telephone conferencing.

Remotely Present:     Chairman Cllr Mrs Shewell, Cllrs Hayward, Hillard, Richards, Evans, Cobb, Ashman, County Cllr Webb and the Clerk.

805.		Apologies for absence:  Cllr Hoskins.

806.		Confirmation of minutes of 2019 AGM:   Approved & signed as correct.

807.		Chairman’s Report:  Attached and read out by the Chairman. 

808.		Election of Chairman for 2020/21:  Cllr Shewell, proposed by Cllr Hayward, 		seconded by Cllr Hillard.
		
809.		Election of Vice-Chairman for 2020/21:  Cllr Hayward, proposed by Cllr 			Shewell, seconded by Cllr Evans.
		
810.		Present & approve Annual Return & Statement of Accounts for the                  	            year ended 31/3/2020:  These having been circulated were approved by 
		all Councillors. Approval proposed by Cllr Shewell, seconded by Cllr Hillard.

811.		Approve Annual Governance Statement for the year ended 2019/20:  This 		            having been circulated was approved.  Proposed by Cllr Shewell, seconded by 		Cllr Richards.
		  
812.		Confirmation of reappointment of Internal Auditor:  The re-appointment of Mr 	            Graham Boulton was proposed by Cllr Shewell, seconded by Cllr Hayward.

813.		Election of Sub-Committee Representatives:-

		(1)  Village Hall – Cllr Cobb.  Proposed by Cllr Shewell, seconded by  
		        Cllr Richards.
		(2)   Finance – Cllrs Shewell, Hayward, Hillard & Evans. Proposed by  		                    Cllr Cobb, seconded by Cllr Ashman.

		(3)   Tintern Charities – Cllrs Shewell & Evans, County Cllr Webb.  Proposed 		        by Cllr Cobb, seconded by Cllr Hayward.
		(4)   Gloucester Harbour Trust – Cllr Hayward liaison officer where necessary.  
		        Proposed by Cllr Shewell, seconded by Cllr Richards.
		(5)   Lower Wye Valley Building Preservation Trust – Cllrs Hayward & 		                    Hillard.  Proposed by Cllr Shewell, seconded by Cllr Evans.
		(6)   Llandogo School – Cllr Evans.  Proposed by Cllr Shewell, seconded 	 		        by Cllr Cobb.
		(7)   Planning - Cllr Ashman.  Proposed by Cllr Shewell, seconded by  			        Cllr Cobb.
		(8)   Business Forum – Cllrs Richards, Cobb & Hillard.  Proposed by             		        Cllr Shewell, seconded by Cllr Hayward.
		(9)   Lower Wye Area Committee Meetings – Cllrs Hillard & Richards.   		                    Proposed by Cllr Shewell, seconded by Cllr Evans.
	            (10) Complaints Committee – Cllrs Shewell, Evans & Hillard.  Proposed  		      	        by Cllr Ashman, seconded by Cllr Hayward.
	            (11) St. Michael’s Church - Cllr Hillard.  Proposed by Cllr Shewell,  		                    seconded by Cllr Hayward.
		(12)  Cluster Meetings - Cllrs Richards, Ashman & Cobb.  Proposed by 		     	         Cllr Shewell, seconded by Cllr Hayward.

Cllr Evans thanked Cllr Richards for her thorough and conscientious work as TCC’s representative on the Planning Committee.

The meeting closed at 19.04.

