Present:  Cllrs Shewell, Evans, Ashman, Morrison, Parker, Snell & Mawdsley & the Clerk.
Members of the public:  Rev Dan Damon re Llandogo Youth Group.  

3466.	Police Reports:  Attached. 

3467.	To receive apologies for absence:  County Cllr Webb.
	
3468.   Public Session (15 mins) to receive & consider any matters raised by  members of the public for future consideration.   The Vicar of Llandogo was present to put forward his proposals for setting up a Youth Brigade/Club in Llandogo and to request the £500 WVCC set aside for this in the budget. 

3469.	Declarations of interest for items on the agenda:  None.
	
3470.	To receive & approve minutes of previous meeting:  Approved & signed as correct. 

3471.	To receive Financial Report:   Charitable A/C £14,803.38, BMM A/C £4,158.60.   
Amount spent to date on capital £14,183.00, revenue £12,670.99.   VAT of £1,184.15 reclaimed & re-paid.

3472. 	To consider & approve accounts for payment:-
One Voice Wales subscription - £203.00 (Ch. No. 300453)
Merlin Environmental Services Ltd - £118.30 (Ch. No. 300454)
Clerk’s Salary & Expenses - £437.50 (Ch. No. 300455)
Llandogo Brigade/Youth Group - £500.00 (Ch. No. 300456)
All approved for payment.

3473.   To discuss Planning Applications:-
DM/2023/00263 – The Chantry (single storey side extension) – Approval recommended. 

3474.   Matters Arising from Minutes:-
Wye Valley Villages Delivery Group & Visitor Signage Project – Discuss report.
Request for further litter bins.  Clerk chased Susan Parkinson up re our request for further bins.  She responded saying she is discussing it with Mark.  The bin that used to be on the Wireworks Bridge is in storage while work being done.  Cllr Mawdsley attended meeting of group on 22nd March to agree date for project prioritisation workshop, give update on 20mph zone and Village Gateway Signage.    
Wireworks Bridge repairwork update:  Work should be completed and bridge re-opened end of April 2023.  Cllr Mawdsley reported that a site visit could be arranged, date and time to be agreed.  
Give Dog Fouling the Red Card report from meeting of 23rd March:  No Cllrs attended.  Email from Sue Parkinson with update on Public Spaces Protection Order relating to dog fouling.  There will be 3 areas where no dogs will be allowed in the community, Tintern Old Station Play Area, Llandogo Play Area & 2 Sylvan View, Tintern. Clerk to chase Sue Parkinson re request for more bins.

3475.	To receive Reports from outside bodies:-
Village Halls – Discuss quotation for sound equipment at Llandogo Hall.   Cllr Parker reported quotes are being followed up.  One received so far for £1,500 just to supply, but further quotes to supply and fit awaited.  Cllrs agreed the sum set aside in the budget could be ring fenced and held over into the next financial year provided they supply firm quotes by the end of April.  Dan Damon reported he would be happy to discuss sound equipment with them as he has recently been involved with the installation of a sound system in a Church in Newport.  Clerk notify Sara Young of this.     
Tintern Hall – New playground equipment installation nearly finished.  The existing equipment has been painted green to match.  Bingo 4th April, Jubilee Craft Fair 8th May,  Local Produce Market on Easter Saturday 8th April which will be a regular monthly fixture, Coronation Party 6th May.  Clerk write to VHC expressing the Council’s concerns about the safety to children of the drop from the monkey bars to the climbing frame.                 
Llandogo School – Numbers been falling over last few years, largely due to an ageing population.  As a result redundancies are likely.  The Federation continues to work well, curriculum for Wales is being ruled out and worked through by all staff.  Additional learning needs are on target to meet the requirements of the new Bill and both Schools are reaching out to their communities, engaging them in school activities and taking part in community projects.  
Tintern & Llandogo Churches – Llandogo. Two Services on Palm Sunday with games and crafts.  Good Friday – Time of Prayer in Tintern & Llandogo.  
Tintern - Easter Sunday two services, one with egg hunt in the churchyard.  Quiz Night the 30th March.  

3476.	Reports from Sub-Committees:-  Finance.  No report.

3477.   Discuss IRPW Report 2023:  Supposed to make a decision at the first meeting after the report is received which was this month.  All councils should pay their members £156 pa towards household expenses and working from home.  If Councillors do not wish to receive this sum they have to inform the Council accordingly.  A mandatory allowance of £52pa must be paid to members for the cost of office consumables.  WVCC have already made a decision to pay the Cost of Care Allowance if claimed.  WVCC already pay the sum of £500pa for a Chairman’s Allowance. These mandatory amounts will be paid in June each year.

3478.   Community Asset Transfer:  Councillors discussed the possibility of declaring Llandogo Hall an asset of community value with a view to getting MCC to pass the lease to WVCC.  Currently MCC take no responsibility for the Hall and ground rent is £40 pa.  This is because there is a hold up by MCC for any projects needing permission under the lease, therefore putting grants at risk.  Cllrs agreed to pursue getting the Hall declared an asset of community value. 

3479.   Discuss quotation for repairworks to Tintern Village Hall boundary wall:  Revised quote from Mark Bearcroft of £4,800 for essential works.  County Cllr Webb is in contact with MCC Highways and is meeting them to discuss ownership of the wall on Wednesday.  Clerk email Lucinda James, AONB to obtain further information about SDF grant funding and to enquire if funding would be available for this work.  Also ask her if The Pound would be eligible.   Clerk email Delcie Simkin, VHC to ask if the contractors can leave the Herris fencing against the wall as a temporary safety barrier.  

3480.   Discuss repairworks to The Pound, Tintern:  Three quotations received.  After discussion the Council agreed to accept Mark Bearcroft’s quote of £2,150. 

3481.   Discuss Section 6 of Environment Act Biodiversity & Resilience of Ecosystems Report:  Cllr Morrison is in the process of completing the six objectives in the report, but requires councillors assistance to complete it.  Councillors asked to look at the report and notify Cllr Morrison by the next meeting.  

3482.   Dog Fouling Campaign meeting update:  Teams meeting held 23rd March.  No Councillors attended.  

3483.   Llandogo Footpaths:  County Cllr Webb circulated details of village walks and funding available towards footpaths from AONB.  She is arranging for MCC’s Footpath Officer to visit and inspect the footpaths as some are in poor condition. 

3484.   Consultation on Prohibition of Driving Order, Pontysaeson-Fairoak:  MCC propose three options, revoking the existing Prohibition Order which would then allow all classes of traffic to use the roadway, retain the 2019 Order or make a further TRO allowing the road to be used on prescribed days for certain events.  After discussion Councillors felt the current Order should be retained.  Clerk notify MCC of the decision. 

3485.   Correspondence:  Request for financial support from Gwent YFC. No decision at present, re-visit in the next financial year.

3486.	Any Other Business:  County Cllr Webb has reported the potholes on the A466 outside the Abbey Junction.  She has also spoken to Matthew Lewis, MCC Countryside re the ongoing problem with off-road bikers and they are preparing a statement to all community councils.  The AONB have secured grant funding from Welsh Government to support a process of consultation with all interested parties to develop an overall strategy and establish an action plan to protect the special value and amenity of the AONB, while allowing all groups to legally and responsibly enjoy the areas in a managed way.  Work is currently underway to tender the work.  Hopefully the process can commence early summer.
The Vicar reported he had written to Anslows, the bus company, as he had heard that funding to run the buses runs out in June 2023.  Clerk to ask County Cllr Webb to enquire if this is correct. 
Cllr Snell raised the continuing problem of dog fouling in Llandogo.  Clerk ask Sue Parkinson when the PSPO comes into force and whether she has any suggestions re the problem in Llandogo.

3487.	Date of next meeting:  24th April.