Present:  Cllrs Evans, Shewell, Ashman, Parker, County Cllr Webb & the Clerk.

3553.	Police Reports:  Attached.  Llandogo just had one report of a tree falling on the A466.

3554.	To receive apologies for absence:  Cllrs Snell, Mawdsley & Morrison.
	
3555.   Public Session (15 mins) to receive & consider any matters raised by members of the public for future consideration.  No one present. 

3556.	Declarations of interest for items on the agenda:  None.

3557.	To receive & approve minutes of previous meeting: Circulated, with one minor amendment to 3547, approved & signed as correct.

3558.	To receive Financial Report:  Charitable A/C £11,300.33, BMM A/C £4,172.53.   Amount spent to date £16,822.75.  Clerk requested payment of grant money from AONB of £1,075 for work to The Pound.

3559. 	To consider & approve accounts for payment:-
Merlin Environmental Services Ltd - £127.40 (Ch. No. 300491)
Clerk’s Salary & Expenses - £335.59 (Ch. No. 300492)
St Michael’s Church Michaelmas Festival - £500.00 (Ch. No. 300493)
Plants for planters – £65.92 (Ch. No. 300494)
Mark Bearcroft – Work to The Pound - £2,150.00 (Ch. No. 300495)
All approved for payment.

3560.   To discuss Planning Applications:-
Guy Delamere, MCC was asked to re-visit the site of supposed illegal foundations in an area at the rear of the former Abbey Hotel car park.  Cllr Evans supplied him with photographs and he is going to check on the Land Registry who owns the land.  

3561.   Matters Arising from Minutes:  None.

3562.	To receive Reports from outside bodies:-
Schools – School on holiday until 4th September.  
Churches – Tintern is holding an Art Festival on 25th/26th August with displays from local artists and refreshments for sale.  30th September - Michaelmas Festival.  Quiz 12th October.      Llandogo – Newsletter circulated.  
Village Halls – Successful farmers market held 19th August.  Meeting of VHC committee held with Wicksteed Leisure to address the issues in the Safety Report.  Report awaited.  
Llandogo – Solar panels installed.  New Kitchen units being installed after successful grant obtained.   VPA Show 25th August.  Film Nights continue.  
Tintern Village Hall projector for film nights has broken down and needs replacing.  Request for funding from VHC of £3,168.  After discussion it was agreed in principal WVCC would assist with funding for the projector subject to a second quotation being obtained, together with confirmation of the appropriate specification and a breakdown of the costs of the projector only.  Clerk to give the VHC details of the company who supplied the Llandogo projector.   Cllr Shewell proposed WVCC purchase the projector at the lower of the two quotes and then include it as part of WVCC’s assets.  The VHC can deal with the installation costs, etc.  All councillors present agreed.

3563.	Reports from Sub-Committees:- Finance.  No report.

3564.   Discuss replacement of some benches in Tintern:  The 3 benches under the boundary wall of Tintern Village Hall playground are in a poor condition, but are not currently owned by WVCC.  The middle bench and memorial bench need minor repair work, but the slats in the end one are rotten.  The one next to the landslide along the A466 is also in poor condition.  Fryer’s Wharf bench has been removed.  Cost of replacement Marmax Products ones are £230 + VAT for brown or £263 + VAT for rainbow.  One at St Anne’s Lane needs repair but at a cost.  Cllr Ashman felt it should be relocated to a better location.  A suggestion was to re-locate it to Fryer’s Wharf.   He will enquire about the cost of repair.  A final decision about replacement was put on hold until prices for repairs could be obtained.

3565.   Discuss maintenance of planters:  It was suggested the Church Lads & Girls Brigade be approached to maintain these.

3566.   Correspondence:  Mike Moran, MCC re improvement works at Lower Wireworks Car Park.  

3567.	Any Other Business:  Mark Bearcroft has completed the maintenance work on The Pound and will be starting work on the Village Hall wall early this week.  Cllr Ashman met him on site and is happy with the work done.  It is now structurally sound but might need re-pointing in future.  Plant growth will also need to be sprayed regularly.  
Cllr Shewell brought up the subject of the blue camper van parked on the promenade.  
Cllr Shewell & County Cllr Webb attended a very positive meeting with Sgt Stephen Hayward & the New Inspector, Emma Sowrey.  They are very keen to build up good relationships and be supportive of community policing.  Several issues were raised with them.  They agreed to endeavour to send someone to a council meeting quarterly.  They will also supply an explanation of what our CSO’s role is to go on the web site and in the Tintern News.  
Cllr Morrison has agreed to do checks on the defibrillator by the Drs Surgery.  
Cllr Parker reported that the multi-use Games Area behind the School needs attention.  Mike Moran from MCC had informed her they were hoping to have it re-surfaced, but there is no money in the budget at the moment.  County Cllr Webb will look into this.
Cllr Evans reported some people were electric treating the Japanese Knotweed at the rear of the former Abbey Hotel. AONB currently have a programme to carry out some eradication measures by this method this September.  
Cllr Parker reported the notice board from near the Llandogo Shop has not been relocated at the new location yet.  Clerk to chase the contractor.
County Cllr Webb reported she had met with Carl Touhig, MCC Highways and looked at overgrown hedges and pavements in Tintern.   Clerk to report these areas too.  Llandogo speed signage is being rectified.  Subsidence work on the road near Pontysaeson is being dealt with.   Plastic fencing near Tintern Abbey has been reported to Cadw.
Planning site meeting held re Livox Quarry two weeks ago. 

3568.	Date of next meeting:  25th September.