Present:  Cllrs Evans, Shewell, Ashman, Morrison, Snell, Parker & Mawdsley, County Cllr Webb & the Clerk.  Members of the public – CSO Andrew Jones & CSO Toby Wall and 5 members of the public.

3590.	Police Reports:  Tintern attached.  No incidents to report from Llandogo.  Be aware of disreputable builders giving large quotes for minor repairs.  

3591.	To receive apologies for absence:  None.  

3592.   Public Session: To receive & consider any matters raised by members of the public for future consideration:  The issue of the blue plastic at Tintern Parva Vineyard was raised.  It was felt by members of the public present that this is unsightly in the AONB.  The Chairman advised that this is not a matter for the Community Council, but should be taken up with MCC Planning & AONB Officers.  

The Treasurer of St. Michael’s Church, Tintern was present to explain the need for the Church to apply to MCC for a licence to sell alcohol.  Temporary licences having previously been obtained for fund raising events, it was more cost effective to apply for an annual licence.  The process is controlled by MCC and does not include consultation with WVCC. 

3593.	Declarations of interest for items on the agenda:  None.

3594.	To receive & approve minutes of previous meeting:  Approved & signed as correct. 

3595.	To receive Financial Report:  Charitable A/C £9,578, BMM A/C £3,189.68. Amount spent to October 1st 2023 £25,716.45. 

3596. 	To consider & approve accounts for payment:-
Merlin Environmental Services Ltd - £127.40 (Ch. No. 300506)
Cllr Mawdsley Councillor Allowance - £156.00 (Ch. No. 300507)
Tintern Village Hall Insurance - £1,140.89 (Ch. No. 300508)
Clerk’s Salary & Expenses - £427.75 (Ch. No. 300509)
All approved for payment.

3597.   To discuss Planning Applications:-
DM/2023/01408 & 01409 – The Wild Hare, Tintern.  Full planning permission & listed building consent for internal alterations.  Approval recommended.   The owners of the former Abbey Hotel & Wild Hare are holding an open event on the 2nd December to inform residents of their plans.

3598.   Matters Arising from Minutes:  Cllr Evans reported that the plaque that was removed from the damaged bench at Tintern Village Hall has been claimed by the family of the person who it belonged to.  

3599.	To receive Reports from outside bodies:
Schools – A lightning strike at Kymin View damaged the control boards for the automatic skylights.  The Federation will have to pay for repairwork.  
Tintern & Llandogo Churches - Tintern held a Quiz on 12th October.  Next event the Requiem on 17th November.  Llandogo – Advent Supper 2nd December.  
Village Halls – Tintern Produce Market 11th November.  Bingo 5th December.  Darts Night & Quiz Night being run by the Football Club.  Craft Fayre 26th November with Father Christmas and outdoor stalls.  New projector up and working and WVCC were thanked for their financial assistance.  Llandogo Hall – Successful Race Night.  Film Night moderately well attended.  Well attended Halloween Event.  Christmas Fayre 2nd December.  Whist Drive held once a month.  New Year’s Eve Party.  
Discuss future maintenance programme for Tintern Hall Wall:  Recommendations received from Mark Bearcroft.  It was agreed a maintenance programme needs to be put in place for the future, to be taken into account when setting the next budget.  County Cllr Webb will ask AONB to contact the Council with information on any possible grant funding. 

3600.	Reports from Sub-Committees:- Finance.  Discuss payment towards hall hire for 
Wye Valley Villages Delivery Group. Each village hosts this meeting in turn.  It was agreed  
to discuss this at next finance sub-committee meeting.  
Cllr Shewell reported that Tintern Village Hall Committee have been informed that WVCC 
will not be paying hall hire as from the next financial year.
Cllr Evans read a document relating to The Legislative Reform Order which removes the rule that payments by a Council must be signed by two members.  Its removal will allow councils to make electronic payments.  
		
3601.   Discuss future of the Village Pound & its future maintenance:  Recommendations received from Mark Bearcroft.   It was agreed that Cadw should be asked to take over  ownership of this historic structure.  Clerk asked to write to Cadw. 

3602.   Maintenance planning for villages report from Nigel Leaworthy, MCC Highways:  Not present but report subsequently emailed.

3603.   Report back from Wye Valley Villages Delivery Group Meeting:   Signage & lining now done in all Wye Valley Villages.  Each village hosts this meeting in turn and provide refreshments.  Suggested each take it in turn to pay for these.  Cllr Mawdsley reported that the Arup Report had been prioritised into four issues, namely Broadband, road safety, sustainable transport (including public transport), river quality and environment.  Due to limited funds its role is to lobby and influence people.  There was an issue identified over a mis-match between the timetables available from Google searches which give different but undated timetables for local buses. This is caused by old search references which should have been detected by web administrators for MCC, Traveline &Ainslow.  There is a Nature Recovery Plan being put in place in the Lower Wye Valley Area by MCC and partner organisations.  Consultation on Tracks & Trails in the Lower Wye Valley has commenced.  There is a Website to access for information on this piece of work to allow people to complete the survey.

3604.   Correspondence:  Email from Nicola Edwards, MCC Destination Manager re update on visitor experience improvements to Tintern.

3605.	Any Other Business:  Work to provide marked parking spaces at the Wireworks Car Park, together with electric charging points, will commence 6th November.
Cllr Snell thanked County Cllr Webb for chasing up the issue of overgrown hedges on the roadside in Llandogo.
Cllr Mawdsley raised the recent issue of jet skis coming up the River Wye.  He reported it to Gloucester Harbourmaster who are taking it to their Trustees Committee next month.    
Welsh Water Report circulated following last Christmas’ water shortages.  They have agreed to improve the supply of temporary water in future and have, they say, updated their list of vulnerable people.  
Cllr Parker produced a document in circulation from Halls Together with information relating to funding of village halls by community councils.  Some of the information relating to Llandogo & Tintern was inaccurate so concerns were raised that this gives an inaccurate picture of how much Llandogo residents receive back from the increase in precept.   
Cllr Morrison reported that the 40mph sign coming out of Tintern towards Brockweir is overgrown and not visible to motorists.  
Cllr Ashman reported that the damaged bench at the end of St Anne’s Lane has now been removed.  The bench at the bottom of the landslide also needs removing.  He also reported that Brockweir Bridge is temporarily closed.  

3606.	Date of next meeting:  27th November.