Present:  Cllrs Evans, Mawdsley, Ashman, Morrison, Parker, Snell, County Cllr Webb & the Clerk.  3 members of the public present.

3607.	Police Reports:  No reports received.

3608.	To receive apologies for absence:  Cllr Shewell.

3609.   Public Session:  The business owners requested information on the process for development of the former Abbey Hotel and asked that they are given at least 8 weeks advance notice of what is happening and when.  The Agents Planning Representative, who was also present, explained that the owners are keen to work with the business owners and other local community and keep them informed.  Demolition work is due to start in April/May.  Decision on planning likely to be January or February. There will be a Public Consultation Event on 18th January in the Village Hall.
  
3610.	Declarations of interest for items on the agenda:  None.

3611.	To receive & approve minutes of previous meeting: Circulated, approved & signed 
as correct.

3612.	To receive Financial Report:  Charitable A/C £7,715.76, BMM A/C £3,189.68.  Total spent to date £27,547.76.

3613. 	To consider & approve accounts for payment:-
Merlin Environmental Services Ltd - £127.40 (Ch. No. 300510)
Christmas Tree for Tintern Village - £140.00 (Ch. No. 300511)
Clerk’s Salary & Expenses - £397.45 (Ch. No. 300512)
All approved for payment.

3614.   To discuss Planning Applications:-
DM/2023/01517 – Demolition of former Abbey Hotel.  Approval recommended.
DM/2023/01502 – Conservation Area Consent Heritage, clearance of the site of the former Abbey Hotel, Tintern through demolition of the existing range of former hotel buildings. Approval recommended.
DM/2023/01503 – Construction of footway along frontage of former Abbey Hotel. Cllr 
Subject to the comments of MCC Highways approval recommended.  

3615.   Matters Arising from Minutes:-
The Village Pound, Tintern – Cadw responded saying due to the fact the structure is not of significant national historical importance, they would not seek to take ownership of it.  Clerk ask the District Valuer for a valuation.
Cllr Evans suggested that our representative on the Wye Valley Delivery Group submit a claim for refreshments at meetings in our villages.


3616.	To receive Reports from outside bodies:-
Schools – no report. 
Tintern & Llandogo Churches – Llandogo – 2nd December Bring & Share Advent Supper.  3rd December Lunch with the Tintern Congregation after the services at 12.30pm.   8-10th December Xmas Tree Festival.
Village Halls – Tintern – Successful Xmas Fair on 26th November. Bingo Night 5th December.   Llandogo – Xmas Fair Saturday 2nd December.  
Church Lads & Girls Brigade – Email from Alan Carter with report on the Brigade’s activities this year.  They are hoping to do their first aid training January/February.  

3617.	Reports from Sub-Committees:- Finance.   Draft Report from IRPW circulated for 
consultation and for Councils to refer to when setting their budget.  Closing date for 
consultation 8th December.  The Panel considers members of Community and Town Councils 
should not be out of pocket for carrying out their duties. It therefore proposes the following:-
 
Basic payment for extra costs of working from home -

All councils must pay their members £156 a year (equivalent to £3 a week) towards the extra 
household expenses (including heating, lighting, power and broadband) of working from 
home.
 
Set payment for consumables -

Councils must either pay their members £52 a year for the cost of office consumables 
required to carry out their role, or alternatively councils must enable members to claim full 
reimbursement for the cost of their office consumables.
 
The Panel would welcome feedback on this Report. 

3618.   Discuss the Council’s Lawnmower:  This is now in poor condition and not worth 
repairing.  A villager has advised that he is happy to continue mowing the grass areas 
informally for the foreseeable future and may be able to source a second-hand mower to 
enable him to do this.  Clerk to inform him that the Council would like to take him up on the 
offer. 

3619.   Correspondence:  Email from Nicola Edwards, MCC with update on visitor experience improvements in Tintern funded under Welsh Government’s Brilliant Basics Scheme.  Replacement brown & white and other highway signs will be installed in approximately two weeks time.  Morgans Consult installed visitor welcome and orientation signs at several locations in Tintern on the 24th November.  

3620.	Any Other Business:  Request for possible bike racks at Fryer’s Wharf.  County Cllr Webb will make enquiries of MCC who provided the hoops at the Village Hall and Tintern Old Station. 
Work to provide parking spaces and resurfacing at Lower Wireworks Car Park is progressing well.  Work likely to be completed late December/early January, weather dependant.
Gulleys and pavements being cleared from St Arvans to Llandogo in the next few days.  
It was reported that further street lights are not working.  Clerk to report.
Fencing along the riverbank by Tintern Abbey car park has been erected.
The building at Ravensnest Fishery is being left as it is as it is now a habitat for bats. 
Complaints from Llandogo residents that they have nowhere to get their recycling bags.  As the Shop is now closed they had ordered them to be delivered to the Village Hall, but this has not happened yet.  County Cllr Webb explained that new reusable bags will shortly be distributed for use.