Present:  Cllrs Shewell, Evans, Mawdsley, Snell & Ashman, County Cllr Webb & the Clerk.

3431.	Police Reports:  Attached.  

3432.	To receive apologies for absence:  Cllr Morrison.
	
3433.   Public Session (15 mins) to receive & consider any matters raised by
            members of the public for future consideration.  No one present. 

3434.	Declarations of interest for items on the agenda:  Cllr Snell re 3340.

3435.	To receive & approve minutes of previous meeting:   Approved & signed as correct.
	
3436.	To receive Financial Report:  BMM A/C £4,148.92, Charitable A/C £25,779.73p.
Amount spent on revenue £11,774.26, capital £13,397.54 totalling £25,171.80.

3437. 	To consider & approve accounts for payment:-
Clerk’s Salary & Expenses - £366.40 (Ch. No. 300441)
Llandogo Village Hall Meeting Room Hire - £75.00 (Ch. No. 300442)
St Michael’s Church, Tintern Welsh Festival - £500 (Ch. No.300443)
Friends of Llandogo School – Donation towards Book Shed - £285.00 (Ch. No. 300444)
All approved for payment.

3438.   To discuss Planning Applications:-
DM/2023/00013 – Listed Building Consent for solar panels, Penterry House – St Arvans.  Now in St Arvans CC area.  
DM/2022/01835 – Conservation Area Consent Heritage, Browns Stores, Llandogo – Approval recommended.

3439.   Matters Arising from Minutes:-
Wye Valley Villages Delivery Group & Visitor Signage Project – Meeting 25th January 2023 to update on 20mph zones, Village Gateway signage and update from community councils on adoption of AONB Plan for the Future.  MCC in process of prioritising the various signage intervention options to determine which are most urgent.  Cllr Mawdsley attended and reported they are planning to get rid of some of the actions on the plan and only take a selection forward.  Meeting to take place in February to make a decision.
Wye Valley Villages Gateway Signage Project - Email from Sadie Beer asking the best location for the outstanding Tintern Sign at the northern end of the village.  Cllrs agreed to the suggested location by the 30mph sign.  Clerk notify her.

3440.	To receive Reports from outside bodies:-
Village Halls – Llandogo – working on the newsletter.  Film Night reasonably well attended.  Plans to replace the film equipment ongoing.   
Tintern – Next event 11th February – 80’s Disco.  Easter Bingo 4th April.  Formalised plans for the Coronation Event, party and coronation being shown in the hall.   Craft Fayre 8th May.  Hosting St David’s Day over 60’s Lunch on 28th February sponsored by Tintern Charities.  Pre-installation meeting for the playground 1st February with the contractors.                        
Llandogo School – Budgets at schools are very tight with costs going up, Welsh Gov’t has decreased the funding.
Tintern & Llandogo Churches – Llandogo - Cllr Snell met the new Vicar, who has some good ideas for the Church and village and wants to hold a Summer Fete at The Rectory. #He has spoken to Alan Carter with a view to expanding the Brigade into Llandogo.   
Tintern - Pancake Supper Shrove 21st February.   Welsh Festival 24th February with Chepstow Male Voice Choir.  Quiz Nights 23rd February & 30th March.

3441.	Reports from Sub-Committees:- Finance.  No further report since meeting held.

3442.   Consider Draft Contract for Dog Waste Collection with Merlin Environmental Services: Cllr Mawdsley drawn up a Purchase Order & Contract which has been circulated to Cllrs and put on the website.

3443.   Correspondence:  Email from Sadie Beer/AONB with list of Halls included in the AONB Sustainable Landscape Places Funding.  Llandogo Hall have been awarded a grant for solar panels.
Email from One Voice Wales re Finance & Government Toolkit and Training Plan which has been circulated to Cllrs.  

3444.	Any Other Business:  Email from Susan Parkinson, MCC stating they wish to remove the litter bin oat the bottom of Forge Road as it is constantly being abused with household waste deposits.  Mark Cleaver asks whether the capacity is adequate or if it should be relocated.  Cllrs felt a bin with recycling facilities would be an idea at this location.  They also felt another permanent bin is required by the bench/letterbox/St Anne’s House, also a   temporary bin by the entrance to Wireworks Bridge and another bin between the Filling Station Cafe & Leytons Field entrance.   Llandogo would like one at the end of footpath leading to the river meadows behind The Sloop (near the dog waste bin).   Clerk request.
It was reported that the former Abbey Hotel has been sold and is going to be converted back into an hotel.  
It was reported that at the meeting with Mark Hand, MCC in Llandogo last autumn about new speed limits they promised a consultation meeting but this did not happen.  Cllrs were asked if they wanted a further meeting.  Cllrs suggested WVCC write to him asking him to confirm they have followed a due process of consultation with regard to the variation of speed limits in Llandogo.  
Cllr Mawdsley is in the process of drawing up a letter to Welsh Water regarding the recent burst water main and subsequent problems.
Roadside wall by Tintern Village Hall – Cllr Shewell arranged for one contractor to inspect the wall and give a quote.  The Clerk was given the name of a second party and asked to contact them to arrange another quote.  Cllrs agreed that the wall is in a dangerous condition and should be repaired as soon as possible.  Discuss at next meeting following receipt of quotes.
Cllr Parker asked if the council noticeboard by the shop in Llandogo can be moved.  Clerk ask John Griffiths to move it to the small green opposite the road by Browns.  
Cllr Ashman asked if the pavements and gulleys could be cleaned along the main road.  County Cllr Webb will report.
Cllr Evans re ongoing problem of off-road motor cycles.  County Cllr Webb will report, but she stated there is a meeting by MCC next week re off-roaders.
Cllr Shewell raised the matter of clearance of The Pound.  This did not get cleared last year.  Clerk asked to arrange for this to be done.
County Cllr Webb reported that MCC have had meetings with the Post Office and it is unlikely the post-van will come back to Tintern.  
She also reported that the Llandogo School access road was frozen in the recent cold weather.  Ownership of the road was discussed and it is now on MCC’s gritting schedule.  

3445.	Date of next meeting:  27th February.