Present:  Cllrs Ashman, Evans, Shewell, Parker, Cllr Mawdsley (remotely), County Cllr Webb & the Clerk.

3749.	Police Reports:  CSO Andy Jones is on sick leave and CSO501 Luca Elliott will be covering for him in his absence.  PC Stephen Hayward has asked to be kept informed.

3750.	To receive apologies for absence:  Cllrs Snell & Morrison.

3751.   Public Session:  No one present.

3752.	Declarations of interest for items on the agenda:  None.

3753.	To receive & approve minutes of previous meeting:  Circulated, approved and signed
as correct.  
		
3754.	To receive Financial Report:  BMM A/C £3,239.07, Charitable A/C £14,503.65.  Amount spent to date £8,983.00.

3755. 	To consider & approve accounts for payment:-
Merlin Environmental Services - £131.04 (Ch. No. 300560)
SLCC Membership - £112.00 (Ch. No. 300565)
Clerk’s Salary & Expenses - £357.75 (Ch. No. 300562)
Plants for Planters - £54.88 (Ch. No. 300563)
Mid Wales Medical Services Ltd – Defibrillator Pads, Tintern - £104.39 (Ch. No. 300564)
Grass Cutting of Llandogo Memorial Green – £300.00 (Ch. No. 300566)
All approved for payment.

3756.   To discuss Planning Applications:-
DM/2024/00713 – Flat Roofed Side Extension Underwood Bungalow, Tintern – A planting regime would improve the aspect and help to obscure the new extension.  Approval recommended. 

3757.   Matters Arising from Minutes:  Cllr Parker attended the Planning Committee site meeting re application for Browns Shop, Llandogo and reiterated that WVCC have consistently supported the application.  They focused on the fact the village has a high proportion of older people and younger residents moved to the village believing there was a shop. 

3758.	To receive other reports:-
Schools – On holiday until 2nd September.
Tintern & Llandogo Churches – Tintern – Trial of a different type of service held last Sunday without communion. Proposed to hold this once a month, with support.  Michaelmas Eco-Fest to be held in September, request for funding will be received shortly.   Clerk email Toni Harvey saying if they can give WVCC valid documentation of expenditure the Council can pay the £500.   Llandogo Church – no report.
Village Halls – Tintern – Committee meeting 21st August.  Quiz 14th September.  
Llandogo – Committee meeting 12th August where they looked at Governance issues, Trustees roles, Charitable issues.  Cllr Parker met the representative of GAVO and was told they cannot offer as much as they did to the previous committee.  They will discuss with the Hall Secretary what they can provide, ie free training.  Future events – 5 Oct Lantern Light Show jointly with river festival.  9th November Race Night.  Burns Night January and Vintage Fayre in February. Film Nights third Friday of each month.  
Reports from Councillors:- 
Wye Valley Villages Delivery Group – Next meeting 16th October. 
 Llandogo Play Area – Cllr Webb, Mike Moran, MCC & Cllr Parker have had discussions about better access to the area by wheelchairs.  He proposes to install a 40m footpath with grasscrete to the play area, install carpet area for picnic table, wheelchair friendly picnic table and Lilly swing unit with basket seat and carpeting under.  Cllr Parker asked how long the work would take.  MCC have £15,000 for the project but need £21,000 and have asked if WVCC would be able to assist towards the cost.  In principle however WVCC agree that adaptations should be made to facilitate accessibility but not to the detriment of other users.  It was agreed to discuss this at the next council meeting after discussion with parents, etc.
3759.	Reports from Sub-Committees:-  Finance.  Nothing to report.

3760.   Discuss the need for Village Halls to provide independently audited accounts to
Community Councils:  Information on HMRC Website circulated to Cllrs.  If a Charity’s income is over £25,000 they are required to provide an independent audit to the Charity Commission.  Clerk asked to email Treasurer of Village Hall asking for a copy of the audited accounts supplied to the Charity Commission.  Cllr Shewell & Cllr Evans proposed that both halls are asked where available to send annual accounts to the Community Council. If at any time they have audited accounts they should be supplied.  

3761.   Discuss possible purchase of Dog Waste Bin by Llandogo Play Area:  MCC have
removed the litter bin without the Council’s knowledge and have suggested WVCC purchase
a dog waste bin for this location.  MCC have now replaced the litter bin near the more used
access to the play area and have also installed a dog waste bin.  Cllrs agreed to pay the sum of
£100 for this bin.  Cllrs also agreed to paying for the emptying of this new dog bin and for it
to be added to Merlin Waste’s contract for emptying.   Clerk notify Merlin Waste. 

3762.   Discuss Defibrillator outside Llandogo Village Hall: This was purchased by the WI
and they have queried whether WVCC want to take on the responsibility of replacing the
pads and batteries.  Cllr Shewell proposed & Cllr Ashman seconded WVCC pay for the pads
and batteries but the WI keep ownership.  Richard McKeand has installed updated pads for
Tintern.

3763.   Discuss Openreach Plans for Tintern:  Email received from County CllrWebb
and Cath Fallon, MCC re Openreach’s plans to provide 8,000 additional rural Welsh 
properties with Ultrafast Broadband boost if residents apply for the credits. Cllr Ashman 
proposed & Cllr Evans seconded that they be asked to attend a future meeting to discuss this.  
Clerk email them.

3764.   Correspondence:  Invitation from Wye Valley National Landscape Partnership to their Study Tour on the 20th September.  Cllrs Mawdsley & Parker attending.  Email from MCC Highways re proposed traffic order for 40mph speed limit on the A466 between St Arvans & Tintern.

3765.	Any Other Business:  The sign at The Freedom has now been erected.  Cllr Shewell reported there is a pavement between the Old Station & Church which is very overgrown.  County Cllr Webb will report.  
Grant Policy - it was suggested that the agreed policy should displayed on the website with a note that application forms may be requested from the Clerk, who can then send them out by email or paper copy
Cllr Shewell reported that the reopening of The Wild Hare, Tintern will not take place until after Xmas.  Cllrs raised concerns about the ongoing management at St. Mary’s Church, Tintern.  Councillors will investigate and report back to the next meeting.  
Cllr Ashman reported that the bench outside St. Mary’s Church has been removed.  Clerk email MCC and ask if they removed it and what their plans are.  
Cllr Ashman reported that he has removed the bench below the landslide and cleared the area.  The plinth needs repairing and he is asking a stone waller for a quotation.  The adjoining grass verge needs clearing as there is a pavement underneath up to the wall.  Re-agenda.  
He also reported that roadside verges are overgrown throughout the village.  He will notify County Cllr Webb.  
Fences along riverbank adjacent to the A466 are in poor repair.  Email Highways.
Email MCC and ask if they still operate the scheme of us paying MCC to come out and carry out specific maintenance tasks, ie a Lengthsman. 

3766.	Date of next meeting:  30th September.
