Present:  Cllr Mawdsley (attending remotely), Cllrs Parker, Snell, Evans, Shewell & Ashman, County Cllr Webb & the Clerk. Representative from Openreach in attendance.

3786.	Police Report:  Attached. Cllr Mawdsley is arranging to have a call with Sergeant Hayward to talk about Police presence in the valley.  

3787.	To receive apologies for absence:  Cllr Morrison.

3769.   Public Session:  No one present other than the representative from Openreach.

3787.	Declarations of interest for items on the agenda:  None.

3788.	To receive & approve minutes of previous meeting:  Circulated, approved & signed as correct.  

3789.   Matters Arising from Minutes:-
3778 - Llandogo Play Area – MCC officer has been on leave so unable to have SV. Cllr Parker to pursue
3779 - Llandogo Memorial Green request for funding - Clerk confirmed they were sent an application form
3782 - Change of Domain name - No Action taken yet. It was noted that moving to another website provider would be considered if the current provider was unable to provide a gov.uk domain. Cllr Shewell clarified that other providers that are simpler to manage would be investigated during the 12 month trial period.

3790.    To discuss Planning Applications:
DM/2024/01246 – Listed Building Consent The Wild Hare, Tintern for slated roof screen, insulation & vents and change to layout.  Approval recommended.
DM/2024/01245 – The Wild Hare, Tintern. New slated screen to flat roof of restaurant, replacement of existing timber lean-to structure to rear with new external glazed canopy and other external alterations.  Approval recommended.

3791.	To receive Financial Report:  BMM A/C - £3,254.77, Community A/C - £20,546.68.  Amount spent to date - £12,958.

3792. 	To consider & approve accounts for payment:-
Merlin Environmental Services - £131.04 (Ch. No. 300574)
Clerk’s Salary & Expenses – £371.25 (Ch. No. 300576)
Both approved for payment. 

It was noted that Llandogo School had requested a grant but had not completed an application form and in any event the School is ineligible for a grant because it is an LEA school.

3793.    Discuss Bench outside St. Mary’s Churchyard:  This is in a very poor condition but is not owned by the WVCC.  It was agreed that WVCC would not purchase a replacement bench. Clerk to make enquiries about the status of the derelict building.
.
3794.    Discuss question of putting unauthorised overnight parking signs at Village Hall & Fryer’s Wharf, Tintern:  The issue of a resident parking a camper van overnight was considered with a view to providing a marked out space for disabled parking. Cllr Ashman reported there is only room for one disabled parking bay.  Cllr Mawdsley proposed that WVCC should prohibit unauthorised overnight parking camper vans and caravans on any WVCC land.  There was no support for this proposal and it was not carried.  

3795.	To receive other reports:-
Schools – Cllrs Evans & Snell attended the recent Harvest Festival.  
Tintern & Llandogo Churches – Tintern – Remembrance Service to be held in the Village Hall.  Now actively preparing for Xmas festivities including Carol Service on Xmas Eve and the Singing Group who will be singing in residents homes.  Christingle Service to be finalised, which will have a craft element.  
 Llandogo – Bubble Church fortnightly on a Sunday at 11am.  
Village Halls – Tintern.  Craft Fayre 1st December, prizes for raffle/tombola welcome, Xmas Bingo 10th December.  VHC are obtaining quotations for roofing repairs to the Village Hall roof and have been asked to let WVCC have some costings by the next meeting.  
 Llandogo – Race Night 9th November.  Xmas Party 14th December.  
Reports from Councillors – Cllr Shewell & County Cllr Webb attended a meeting with officers from MCC Listed Buildings regarding The Wild Hare, Tintern and she reported that there are numerous applications in at present, but relations seem to be working well together with the owners.  Cllr Mawdsley asked what the current situation is with the former Abbey Hotel – it was explained this has been temporarily shelved until work on The Wild Hare is completed.  
Cllr Parker attend the OVW Conference on 16th October.  The Auditor General & Welsh Public Sector Ombudsman provided interesting talks, which focussed mainly on accountability and transparency issues.  The backlog is reducing but both said they were getting more complaints with town & community council reports.   
Llandogo Play Area - Complaints have been received about people allowing dogs in the play area.  MCC have not yet put up signs denoting the PSPO – the order is therefore 
un-enforceable. Residents request that the gap in the fencing is closed to help keep dogs out.
Cllr Mawdsley reported that Tracks & Trails Project has appointed a chair and suggested the group be asked to consider a trial management plan of tracks and trails around Tintern to tackle the issue of off-road bikes. 
Cllr Ashman reported that Mark Bearcroft is looking at repairing the plinth for the bench below the landslide.  Councillors will then decide whether to purchase a new bench as the current one is in a very poor condition
 
3796.	Reports from Sub-Committees:-  Finance.  A meeting of the Finance Committee to be arranged.  Date of 19th November in Tintern Village Hall was suggested.  Date subsequently confirmed. 

3797.   Discuss whether to join the proposed Consortium of Wye Valley Councils:  Email from Richard Crichton stating they are considering resurrecting this group.  Feedback required by 15th November.  Clerk reply saying WVCC feel the re-forming of the group would be a duplication of effort.

3798.   Presentation from Gavin Jones, Regional Engagement Manager for Openreach re proposals to build full fibre to over 600 premises in Tintern:  They have the largest network in Wales and will be using some Government funding.  Currently just under 71% full fibre coverage in Monmouthshire but Tintern at only 13% at present. Vouchers worth up to £4,500 available for properties who are eligible to apply for, if placing an order within 2 months of it being available.  Eligibility criteria is set by the Government and only offer funding to an area not already claimed by another company.  There are over 600 premises in their build plan across the Tintern exchange area and 355 premises are eligible.  Cllr Mawdsley asked why Llandogo NP25 4TD premises are not getting the grant.  Cllr Parker explained these are provided by the St Briavels Exchange and will be built by another company.  Gavin will get more information on this subject and forward it to the Clerk.   

3799.   Correspondence:  None.

3800.  Any Other Business:  Cllr Evans reported on the condition of the Green Lane behind Parva Springs following recent works by MCC.  Following heavy rainfall the new surface washed away and has now been replaced with concrete strips. Complaints were received
that no warning was given that work was going to be undertaken.  
Cllr Shewell reported that Chapel Lane was closed for a fortnight while a new sub-station for The Wild Hare was installed.  Part of the bank had to be dug out and now encroaches on the lane.  National Grid have agreed to rectify the problem. 
Cllr Ashman asked if the issue with the tree opposite Lindsay Cobb’s house was sorted. He was informed they have spoken to MCC and been referred to the Trees Officer.
 
3801.	Date of next meeting:  25th November.
