Present:  Cllrs Evans, Shewell, Morrison, Parker, Mawdsley, Snell, County Cllr Webb & the Clerk.

3681.	Police Reports:  None received.

3682.	To receive apologies for absence:  Cllr Ashman.

3683.   Public Session: No one present.

3684.	Declarations of interest for items on the agenda:  None.

3685.	To receive & approve minutes of previous meeting:  Circulated, approved & signed as
correct.

3686.	To receive Financial Report:  Community A/C £12,320.23, BMM A/C £3,222.29.
Amount spent to date £567.00.  Bank Charges £8.60.

3687. 	To consider & approve accounts for payment:-
Merlin Environmental Services - £131.04 (Ch. No. 300531)
One Voice Wales Subscription - £213.00 (Ch. No. 300532)
Data Protection Registration Fee - £40.00 (Ch. No. 300533)
Zurich Council Insurance - £543.97 (Ch. No. 300534)
Internal Auditor’s Report Fee - £90.00 (Ch. No. 300535)
Clerk’s Salary & Expenses - £444.45 (Ch. No. 300536)
Llandogo PCC – Churchyard maintenance grant - £500.00 (Ch. No. 300537)
All approved for payment.

3688.   To discuss Planning Applications:-
DM/2024/00372 – Single storey extension, Maple Cottage, Llandogo –  Respond saying WVCC have concerns about anomalies on the plans submitted with the application and landscape on Google maps so could MCC please investigate. 
DM/2024/00233 – Reconsultation, The Woodlands, Trellech Road, Tintern.   Approval recommended. 
DM/2024/00415 – The Wild Hare, Tintern.  Landscape Gardens & erection of tent structure.  Approval recommended.

3689.   Matters Arising from Minutes:  None.

3690.	To receive Reports from outside bodies:-
Schools – Governors meeting cancelled as Estyn inspection last week.  
Tintern & Llandogo Churches – Tintern.  Bach on the River Concert 26th May.  Awaiting purchase and delivery of a new organ.  Insurance claims being submitted for flood damage.
Llandogo – Village Fete 8th June on the Memorial Green, Church & Churchyard.  Every Saturday in May there will be a Service of Healing in the morning and Wellness Activity in the afternoon.
Village Halls – Tintern.  Security cameras in place and the Hall now has a full licence for events.  Next Produce Market 11th May.  Future events planned are Writers Forum in September, Quiz & Xmas Bingo.  Full audit of Hall accounts due this year.  The VHC are starting to raise money towards future maintenance to the roof.  Offer was received from Wicksteed Leisure quoting for playground inspection but when compared with ROSPA Councillors agreed to continue with ROSPA.  The Hall have received their business rates demand and this is again a nil return.  AGM held last week and Cllr Shewell was elected as WVCC’s representative.
Llandogo – Have a number of events planned.  River Festival is running early May and will be in Llandogo next Monday using the Village Green for a picnic.  Village Hall will generate funds by running a bar.  Barn Dance 8th June.  Possible Quiz in September.  AGM due July.  
Report from One Voice Wales Area Meeting – Cllr Parker elected as OVW representative on WVNL Joint Advisory Group.  Cllr Rita Edwards, St.Arvans CC voted onto OVW National Executive Committee.
Cllr Allowance –HMRC have confirmed that the allowance may be treated as a Home Working Allowance and as it is under the PAYE threshold it does not need to be reported to HMRC or paid through payroll unless another HWA is being claimed. Consumables Allowance remains tax free.   

3691.	Reports from Sub-Committees:-  Finance.  Meeting to be fixed after AGM.  

3692.   Discuss the need for a Grants Policy: The basic principles were discussed and it was
agreed to discuss this at the next Finance meeting.  Discussed the need to regularise financial
grants to all bodies to whom WVCC makes payment. This will be reviewed by the Finance
Committee and reported back to the full Community Council for discussion.  All Councillors
agreed to this course of action.

3693.   Discuss possible replacement of Benches by Landslide & Village Green:  These
are both in a poor state of repair.  Agreed to remove the bench on the Village Green.  Cllr
Ashman has offered to try and repair the one by the landslide.

3694.   Report from Wye Valley Villages Delivery Group Meeting:  Attended by Cllrs
Mawdsley & Parker.  4 key strands of work ongoing.  River quality – trials working on upper
reaches.  The trial on chicken pellets is looking positive.   Broadband – Likely to be 10 years
until Superfast Broadband is installed in the area. Trying to improve 4G signal by increasing
the height of masts.  BT have handed over their residential lines to EE.  
Road safety – 20mph speed limit is going to be reviewed in some locations.  Welsh
Government feels there is no need to have traffic calming & 20mph signs.  Also going to
remove repeater signs.   Request for Community Councils to contribute towards street
cleaning.  

3695.  Correspondence:  Request from Llandogo PCC for the annual grant of £500 towards Churchyard maintenance.  Councillors agreed to this being paid as it was budgeted for.
Request from MonLife for a donation.  Councillors agreed that as this organisation is part of MCC any funding should come from them.
Email from MCC re proposed introduction of 40mph speed limit on A466 between St Arvans and Tintern.

3696.	Any Other Business:  Concerns were raised over the length of time it is taking for renovation work at The Wild Hare, Tintern.  County Cllr Webb confirmed she had spoken to Amy Longford, MCC re the issue of internal alterations and certain planning issues that had to be authorised.  Clerk to write to Ms Longford stating we understand there are issues relating to the Wild Hare and are anxious that any steps that can be taken to progress matters should be done as soon as possible.  We are mindful that the hotel currently employs a significant number of local people who are at present on furlough and the business cannot indefinitely sustain this extended closure.  It was felt as much as possible should be done to bring matters forward and ask that they set out the issues.  

Potholes at the bottom of Trellech Road still an issue.   Report to Ross Price at Highways.  
Cllr Parker brought up the issue of accessibility to the play equipment in Llandogo Hall Playground.  County Cllr Webb has met Mike Moran, MCC.  They have agreed to put rubber matting at the bottom entrance to the Playground and cut vegetation away along the pavement.  
Cllr Parker raised the matter of an article in the Llandogo Newsletter.  
County Cllr Webb & MCC Officers are looking into the question of whether the Freedom Lane should be restricted to use by residents only.  
Cllr Evans reported that there is a caravan parked on the A466 past the Livox Quarry.  
